We'll come back.
I've given you some starter files so I recommend watching these videos as you code along as well on
your computer.
We have a few animal carts here that are extremely cute obviously right now if we look at what we have
we have an HD m.p.h. with just simple divs that contain these little emojis of animals.
And if we go to the style tab of prefilled a few things for you just so things look good but all we're
really doing here is we have a few colors and we've added gradients here just so it looks a little bit
nicer and we have the zones which are these individual cards with some predefined CSSA properties that
we've already seen in the previous videos just with this base CSSA that we have.
We see that we have some really nice looking cards.
And right now we're using display in line block.
If I change just to display block and I save this let's refresh.
We see that we now have blocks that's great but we want a little bit more control and perhaps make this
grid a little bit more responsive.
Maybe look a little bit different and just overall cleaner and when it comes to grids CSSA grid is a
way to go.
So how do we use it.
Well the first thing we need to do is to have a container around these items.
So I'm just going to create a new div and give it a class of container we can name and whatever we want
but containers are nice.
Descriptive class name.
And we wrap all the items in this container.
Now the way CSSA grid works is very similar to fluxbox.
That is we give it the property of display grid and all the children will now be able to be part of
this grid system.
So let's see what that looks like.
I'm going to have the container class and this container class will have display
grid.
So remember with fluxbox we can do flex.
It's similar to that.
We do display grid and we no longer want to use the display block of the zones because we're going to
have a grid system.
So I'm just going to comment this for now we've just declared this has a grid system but we actually
need to tell it what to do now.
And the most important part of CSX grid is this property grid template columns and most likely you're
going to be using this in all your CSSA grid implementation and where we can use these grid template
columns is to tell our page how many columns we want to use in here.
If I say something like 300 pixels and 300 pixels I save and refresh your look at that I have 300 pixels
and then 300 pixels and automatically it because I've declared it this way with two definitions or two
values.
It assumes that we have two grids two grids of three hundred pixels and 300 pixels.
So if I make this larger or smaller it's always going to have 300 pixels to columns.
If I had let's say a now there are 300 pixels here and save refresh.
Look at that.
We now have three columns.
Very very nice.
And now the one day you'll see a lot of is the grid gap.
And as you might guess from the name it tells us how much gap we want between the grids.
So if I do 20 pixels here and I refresh see that we get 20 pixels of gap.
Now this looks really good right now.
But if I change things around this isn't really responsive because each column is 300 pixels wide.
And as we know users have different display sizes.
So you get these ugly grids where you have a white space over here.
How will we go about solving this.
And you might be thinking what if we just do percentages here what if we had four columns and we say
25 percent 25 percent 25 percent 25 percent refresh this
I have four columns but there's still some scrolling involved
although we see that things are a little bit more responsive now.
Now you can totally do percentages with great Templi columns and it's definitely a lot better than using
something like pixels but you now have to start calculating the fact that you also have a grid gap of
twenty pixels and well see SS great actually gives us a really really good tool that I recommend you
use 100 percent of the time instead of percentages or pixels or yams or rpms.
And that is called a far or a fraction.
Now what does the FRC index mean if I do want F are here and I save Now let's refresh.
All right I get one item as far means we have a one fraction in this column so just fill it all up.
If I do one f are again and I refresh I get two collops.
But look at this as I expand and make it smaller.
It automatically resizes because I'm saying I want two columns that are one far one for
now.
A better way to explain what this far value means is if I do something like too far here what do you
think will happen.
If I save and refresh this should give you a better idea.
All we're saying is we want 3 columns.
And in terms of the proportion or the sizes I want the first two columns to be half the size of the
Thirkell.
Because in terms of fractions This is twice as big as the other ones.
As I make this larger and larger it's always going to say and keep those proportions.
This is going to be twice as large as the other ones.
So when you using CSSA grid this is the best way for you to maintain this grid system and make sure
that it's responsive.
How cool is that.
Just by writing three properties saying that we want to use the grid system adding maybe a great gap
and grid template columns with these F R values we've made a grid system that is quite responsive but
there are a few more properties that we can use in CSSA grid.
So let's check them out in the next video.